---
---

Heartbeat 
=========

### Context 

People have a shared interest, and have connected with each other about
it.

### Problem 

What’s an easy way for those people to feel like there’s a *there,
there?*

### Solution 

People seem to naturally gravitate to regularly scheduled activities.
Once a week (meetings) or once a year (conferences, festivals) are two
common variants. Sometimes people need a little extra prompt to join
in.[^1] When the project is bigger than more than just a few people,
it’s likely to have several <span>**Heartbeats**</span>.[^2]

### Rationale 

This pattern might seem too obvious, since regularly scheduled meetings
are so ubiquitous. But there’s an important difference between a mere
meeting and a <span>**Heartbeat**</span>: in short, if the energy from
your meetings isn’t helping you or your group thrive, something needs to
change.

### Resolution 

This pattern is one of the easiest ones to use to introduce
<span>**Newcomers**</span> to the idea of a design pattern, since
everyone is familiar with the pattern of a supportive routine. But it is
also a sophisticated tool: noticing when a new
<span>**Heartbeat**</span> is beginning to emerge is a way to be aware
of the priorities in the group, and may be a good source of new
patterns. Similarly, noticing when a specific <span>**Heartbeat**</span>
has faded may be a sign that one of our patterns should be moved to the
<span>**Scrapbook**</span>.

### What’s Next 

Identifying and fostering new <span>**Heartbeats**</span> and new
working groups is a task that can help make the community more robust.
This is the temporal dimension of spin off projects described in
<span>**Use or Make**</span>.

[^1]: In the “Collaborative Lesson Planning” course led by Charlie
    Danoff at P2PU, Charlie wrote individual emails to people who were
    signed up for the course and who had disappeared, or lurked but
    didn’t participate. This helped course participants re-engage and
    make positive contributions. In more recent months, Charlotte Pierce
    has been the primary driver behind weekly meetings run using Google
    Hangout to coordinate work on the *Peeragogy Handbook* as well as
    tending to to other community interests. Not only have we gotten a
    lot of hands-on editorial work done this way, we’ve generated a
    tremendous amount of new material (both text and video footage) that
    is likely to find its way into future versions of the *Peeragogy
    Handbook*. As long as this continues, “Mondays at 1PM Eastern US
    time” is a reliable time to make contact with the Peeragogy Project.

[^2]: There have been several periods of time operated two regularly
    scheduled weekly meetings in the Peeragogy project at distinct time
    slots, for members with slightly different interests and slightly
    different availability. This typically relates to small
    special-purpose projects, like our work on this paper.

