---
---

> We live where no one knows the answer and the struggle is to figure out the question. [1]

Welcome to the _Peeragogy Handbook_!  We want to kick things off with
a candid confession: we're not going to pretend that this book is
perfect.  In fact, it's not an ordinary book at all.  The adventure
starts when you get out your pen or pencil and begin marking it up.
Things will really get cooking when you jump into our forum and start
sharing your concerns.  If everything goes as planned you'll get a lot
of friendly support and perhaps some unexpected challenges as you
write your own peeragogical adventure.  But first, what is peeragogy?

*Peeragogy* is a flexible framework of techniques for peer learning
and peer knowledge production.  As pedagogy theoretically articulates
the transmission of knowledge from teachers to students, peeragogy
describes the way peers produce and utilize knowledge together.

The learning mind-set and new strategies for "good faith
collaboration" [2] that we are uncovering in the Peeragogy project can
be applied in classrooms, hackerspaces, business meetings, wiki
projects and interconnected collaborations across an entire society.

The _Peeragogy Handbook_ draws extensively on our experiences working
together on the _Peeragogy Handbook_ -- and in other collaborative
projects.  The best way to learn about peeragogy is to get involved in
putting peeragogy into action.  Towards that end, coauthors and fans
of the book have an active Google+ community, conveniently called
"Peeragogy in Action".  So far, we've maintained a regular schedule of
weekly meetings that you're welcome to jump into.  One of the final
sections of the _Handbook_ is a short syllabus, also called "Peeragogy
in Action", that you can work through in own group.

You're invited to combine your local projects with the global effort,
and get involved in making the next edition of the book.  We're always
interested in new use cases, tricky problems, and interesting
questions.  In fact, our view is that any question is a good question.

Here is a more detailed list of ways in which the current edition of
the _Handbook_ is not perfect.  You're welcome to add your questions
and problems to the list!  These are also places where you can jump in
to get involved.  In any case, airing our dirty laundry up front will
give you some idea of the issues and challenges we face putting you're
peeragogy in action.  If you're not intrigued by this sort of
challenge, there are many other books

# Maintaining a list of useful resources

We include references and recommended reading, and there are lots more
links that have been shared in the Peeragogy in Action community.
It's a ongoing task to catalog and improve these resources --
including books, videos, images, projects, technology, etc.  In short,
let's "Reduce, Reuse, Recycle"!  As a good start, Charlotte Pierce has
been maintaining a spreadsheet under the heading "survey" in our
Google Drive.

# Developing a really accessible DIY tool-kit

A short "workbook" containing interviews and some activities follows
this introduction, but it could be much more interactive.  Amanda
Lyons and Paola Ricuarte made several new exercises and drawings that
we could include. A more developed workbook could be split off from
the handbook into a separate publication.  It would be great to have
something simple for onramping.

Paola Ricuarte points out that a really useful book will be easy to
sell.  For teachers interested in peeragogy, this needs to be
something that can be use in workshops or on their own, to write in,
to think through issues.  We're partway there, but to improve things,
we really need a better set of activities.

The next time Paola or someone else uses the handbook or handbook to
run a workshop, she can say, "turn to this page, let's answer this
question, you have 5 minutes."  There are lots of places where the
writing in the handbook could be made more interactive.  One technique
Paola and Amanda used was turning "statements" from the handbook into
"questions."

# Developing a visual identity

Amanda also put together the latest cover art, with some collaboration
from Charlotte using inDesign. A more large-scale visual design would
be a good goal for the 4th Edition of the book.  Fabrizio Terzi, who
made the handbook art for the 1st Edition, has recently been working
on making our website more friendly.  So, again, work is in progress
but we could use some help.

# Workflow for the 4th edition

We've uploaded the content of the book to Github and are editing the
"live" version of the site in Markdown.  For previous print editions,
we've converted to LaTeX.  There are a number of workflow bottlenecks:
First, people need to be comfortable updating the content on the site.
Second, it would be good to have more people involved with the
technical editing work that goes into compiling for print.  Remember,
what we produce an actual handbook that we can sell it.  In fact,
because co-authors have transferred their copyright in this book to
the Public Domain, _anyone_ can print and sell copies, convert the
material into new interactive forms, or do just about anything with
the book.

One thing that could help would be to use Open Broadcasting or similar
tools to create screen recordings to develop tutorials for
contributions.

# Translations

Translating a book that's continually being revised is pretty much a
nightmare.  It might be better to just pay professional translators.
But for that, we'll need a pretty serious budget.  See below.

# Next steps? What's the future of the project?

In short: If we make the Handbook really useful, then it will be no
problem to sell more copies of it.  That is one way to make money to
cover future expenses.  It's a paradigmatic example for other business
models we might use in the future.  Part of our regular hangout time
should be devoted to "project management" considerations.


# References

1. Joshua Schimel, 2012. "Writing Science", Oxford University Press.

2. Joseph Michael Reagle, 2010. "Good faith collaboration: The culture of Wikipedia", MIT Press.
