---
---

Peeragogy Project 
=================

### Context 

Architectual maverick Christopher Alexander asked the following
questions to an audience of computer programmers @alexander1999origins:

> “What is the Chartres of programming? What task is at a high enough
> level to inspire people writing programs, to reach for the stars?”

We believe that the nexus of learning and computers – exemplified today
by Wikipedia, StackExchange, and Free/Libre/Open Source Software (FLOSS)
– presents an implicit challenge to the old way of doing things in
education. Taking up that challenge and building a new model is reaching
*ad astra per aspera*.

### Problem 

In a volunteer context, telling people what to do really doesn’t work.
So we need another way to communicate. Furthermore, everyone involved in
these projects seems to be learning all the time. So the way we
communicate needs to be adaptive to circumstances.

### Solution 

Christopher Alexander introduced the idea of *design patterns* – using a
simple template to describe and shape the human life world. In our
context, design patterns allow us to bridge physical and virtual, move
from fantastic to concrete and back. We’ve made a few minor alterations
to Alexander’s original template in order to use patterns in a project
that is always changing. In addition to the traditional
*context*/*problem*/*solution* and *rationale*, we try to make it clear
what the very act of documenting each pattern *resolves*, and we record
the “*What’s next*” steps we have planned, in order to make the
currently acting forces explicit. As time goes by we revise. Like
Alexander, we cross-reference our patterns to understand the links
between them. The <span>**Peeragogy Project**</span> is itself an
up-to-date example of Alexander’s <span>**Network of Learning**</span>
@alexander1977pattern [p. 99].

### Rationale 

Patterns are intuitive to write and read. Our specific interpretation of
the framework helps everyone involved integrate what they are learning.
We can use our design pattern catalog to scaffold our work on other
parts of the project – our technical platform, our Handbook, our
meetings – and to connect with others.

### Resolution 

Writing down this pattern defines some of the key terms for
<span>**Newcomers**</span>, and shows how to use the pattern template
introduced schematically above. Together with Figure [fig:connections],
this pattern begins to show how we are affected by using patterns to
build emergent structure.

### What’s next 

Feel free to join us and suggest new patterns and projects, or adapt our
patterns to help shape your own <span>**Peeragogy Project**</span>.[^1]

[^1]: In the present document, the term Peeragogy Project, written in a
    standard font, refers to a current historical, real-world, example
    of the <span>**Peeragogy Project**</span> pattern. This project has
    been active since it was convened by Howard Rheingold
    @howard-rheingold-lecture. In order to enhance the readability of
    our patterns for a general audience, *examples* drawn from our
    experiences in the Peeragogy Project and related projects appear in
    footnotes, rather than the pattern template as such.

