---
---

Roadmap {#sec:Roadmap}
=======

### Context {#context .unnumbered}

It is very useful to have an up-to-date public roadmap for the project
in a place where it can be discussed and maintained. The roadmap exists
as an artifact with which to share current, but never complete,
understanding of the space.

### Problem {#problem .unnumbered}

Without a roadmap, there will not be a shared sense of the project’s
goals or working methods. It will be much harder for people to volunteer
to help out, or to assess the project’s progress. As everyone has time
limitations, the project has to offer enough of what the participant
seeks to keep it on their calendars. Because everyone comes at it with
different and changing interests, expertise and motivations, the process
has to be adaptive to circumstances.

### Solution {#solution .unnumbered}

Keeping a list of current and upcoming activities, as well as goals and
working methods can help and old-timers alike see where they can jump
in. As we cross things off the list, this gives a sense of the
accomplishments to date, and any major challenges that lie ahead. At the
same time, this is a project with emergent structure, and so the needs
to be emergent, not simply prescriptive. (See Section
[sec:Distributed~R~oadmap] for our “distributed roadmap.”)

### Rationale {#rationale .unnumbered}

Unless the roadmap is easy for people to see and to update, they are not
likely to use it. If they manage to get involved, they will fly off in
their own direction; see .[^1] But frequently it’s impossible to know in
advance what will happen! A that’s not quite right will feel burdening.
Sometimes it’s better to be more open to the unknown.

### Resolution {#resolution .unnumbered}

A project can survive without a regularly updated , but progress will be
harder to come by and deadlines will be more likely to be forgotten.
Over the past years of the project our various roadmaps have helped
guide and organize our work across continents, time zones and different
day job work schedules. But only now do we have a robust mechanism in
place for building and maintaining a “distributed roadmap.”

### What’s Next {#whats-next .unnumbered}

Adding “What’s Next” steps to our patterns gives us a “distributed
roadmap.” And this works both ways: If we sense that something needs to
change about the project, that is a clue that we might need to record a
new pattern.

[^1]: In the Peeragogy project, once the handbook’s outline became
    fairly mature, we used it as a roadmap, by marking the sections that
    are “finished”, marking the sections where editing is currently
    taking place, and marking the stubs (possible starting points for
    future contributors). After this outline matured into a real [table
    of contents](http://peeragogy.org/table-of-contents/), we started to
    look in other directions for things to work on, and created a
    [roadmap for further development of the website and peeragogy
    project as a whole](http://peeragogy.org/peeragogy-org-roadmap/).
    Unlike the earlier outline, this one was relatively top down and did
    not have strong buy-in from contributors. Our thinking about
    roadmaps continued to evolve @corneli2013roadmaps, and in the
    Peeragogy Accelerator phase of the project
    @building-peeragogy-accelerator, we included a roadmap in the
    “behind the scenes” version of our landing page, we used it as a way
    to link to other documents we were working on. This shared
    “[bulletin
    board](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RZEsqFDwF-jPiCvgWzJgi6n6faTRTDuPQS1CMEeXxRE/edit#heading=h.p197njr3jsn8)”
    listing upcoming opportunities and completed tasks was much more
    active than the top-down roadmap on peeragogy.org.

