---
---
Carrying capacity 
=================

### Context 

There’s only so much any one person can do in a project.

### Problem 

At times, a facilitator or participant in the peer-learning enterprise
may feel he or she is over-contributing – or, perhaps more likely, that
others are under-contributing – or that someone else is railroading an
idea or dominating the discussion.

### Solution 

If this happens, take a step back and observe the dynamics of
involvement. Ask questions and let others answer. Especially if you
start to feel the symptoms of burnout, seek a more sustainable level of
engagement. Lead by presenting a good example – and make sure it’s
someplace you, and others, actually want to go! This could be a good
time to revisit the group’s <span>**Roadmap**</span> and see if you can
figure out and clarify to others what concrete goal you’re working
towards. Remember that you can also change the “landscape” by making it
easier for other people to get involved – for example, by explaining
what you’re trying to do in a clear manner. Be on the look out for
opportunities to step back, watch, and listen. Try to be mindful of
phases when active or quiet involvement would be more helpful to the
individual and the group. It’s also helpful to let anyone who has taken
on a facilitation role know if you’re stepping back temporarily. Then,
when the time is right, step back in and get to work!

### Rationale 

Even though your project may be very important, you won’t always make it
go better by working harder.

### Resolution 

This pattern serves as a good reminder for anyone who believes him- or
herself to be caring more about project outcomes than other
participants. Investigate why this is. Are you all affected by the
outcomes in the same way? Working smart requires you to focus on your
own goals, while relating to others who may have a different outlook,
with different, but hopefully still compatible goals.

### What’s Next 

This pattern catalog has been rewritten in a way that should make it
easy for anyone to add new patterns. Making it easy and fruitful for
others to get involved is one of the best ways to redistribute the load
(compare the
<span>**[Newcomer](http://peeragogy.org/practice/heuristics/newcomer/)**</span>
pattern).

